[Music]
Ted books and Simon and Schuster audio
present the laws of medicine field notes
from an uncertain science by sidartha
Mukerji read by Santino Fontana with an
introduction by the
[Music]
author the laws of
medicine your years ago as a medical
student in Boston I watched a senior
surgeon operate on a woman the surgeon
called him Dr Castle was a legend among
the surgical residents about 6t tall
with an imposing formal manner that made
the trainees quake in their clogs he
spoke in a slow nasal tone that carried
the distinct draw of the South there was
something tensile in his build more
steel wire than iron girder as if his
physique had been built to illustrate
the difference between stamina and
strength he began rounds at 5: every
morning then moved down to the operating
theaters in the basement by 6:15 and
worked through the day into the early
evening he spent the weekends sailing
near situ in a one M Sloop that he had
nicknamed The
Knife the residents worshiped Castle not
only for the Precision of his technique
but also because of the quality of his
teaching other surgeons may have been
Kinder gentler instructors but the key
key to Castle's teaching method was
Supreme self-confidence he was so
technically Adept at surgery so
masterful at his craft that he allowed
the students to do most of the operating
knowing that he could anticipate their
mistakes or correct them swiftly after
if a resident nicked an artery during an
operation a lesser surgeon might step in
nervously to seal the bleeding vessel
custle would step back and fold his arms
look quizzically at the resident and
wait for him or her to react if the
Stitch came too late C hand would reach
out with the speed and precision of a
Falcon's Talon to pinch off the bleeding
vessel and he would Stitch it himself
shaking his head as of mumbling too
little too late I've never seen senior
residents in surgery grown men and women
with six or 8 years of operating
experience so deflated by the swaying of
a human
head the case that morning was a woman
in her 50s with a modest size tumor in
her lower intestine we were scheduled to
begin at 6:15 as usual but the resident
assigned to the case had called in sick
a new Resident was paged urgently from
the wards and he came quickly into the
operating room tugging his gloves on
Castle walked up to the CAT scans hung
on the fluorescent light box studied
them silently for a while then moved his
head ever so slightly signaling the
first incision there was a reverential
moment as he stretched out his right
hand and the nurse handed him the
scalpel the surgery began without
incident about half an hour later the
operation was still under perfect
control some surgeons liked to blast
music in the operating room rock and
roll and brahs were common choices but
Castle preferred silence the resident
was working fast and doing well the only
advice that castle had offered was to
increase the size of the incision to
fully expose the inner abdomen if you
can't name it you can't cut it he
said but then the case took a quick turn
as the resident reached down to cut the
tumor out of the body the blood vessels
surrounding it began to leak at first
there was only a trickle and then a few
more spurts in a few minutes about a
teaspoon of blood had run into the
surgical field obscuring the view the
carefully exposed tissues were submerged
in a crimson flood Castle stood by the
side his hands folded
watching the resident was clearly
flustered I watched a pool of sweat
forming over his brow mirroring the pool
of blood in front of him does this
patient have a known bleeding disorder
he asked his desperation mounting was
she on a blood thinner usually he would
have studied the chart the night before
and known all the answers but he had
hurriedly been assigned to the
case what if you didn't know said Castle
what if I told you that I didn't know
his hands had already reached into the
woman's abdomen and closed the vessels
shut the patient was safe but the
resident looked
devastated but then it was as if a tiny
bolt of knowledge had moved like an
electric Ark between kle and his
resident the resid modified his approach
he walked over passed the surgical
drapes above the woman's head to confer
with the
anesthesiologist he confirmed that the
anesthesia was adequate and the patient
was safely sedated then he returned to
the surgical field and blotted Out The
Remnant blood with some gauze now he
began cutting around the blood vessels
where he could charting their course
with the tip of his Babcock forceps or
separating them with his fingers with
exquisite delicacy as if polishing the
strings of a Str of a I